{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Once upon a time, there was a young person named Alex who had always felt a little different from others. They had always been drawn to animals and loved learning about different species. But it wasn't until they discovered the world of furries that they finally felt like they had found a community where they belonged.\
As a furry, Alex was able to express their love of animals through their art, costumes, and even their online persona. They loved creating and wearing fursuits, which were costumes that made them look like their favorite animals. They also enjoyed drawing and writing stories about the different animals they loved.\
One day, Alex decided to attend a furry convention, where they would be able to meet other furries and see all the amazing costumes and art. They were a little nervous, but also excited to finally meet people who understood and accepted them.\
When they arrived at the convention, they were greeted with a warm and welcoming community of people who were all there to celebrate their love of animals and fursonas. They saw fursuits of all different shapes and sizes, from cute and fluffy to fierce and intimidating. They also saw art and crafts of all kinds, from paintings and drawings to sculptures and jewelry.\
Alex had a great time at the convention, and even made a few new friends. They were excited to continue exploring the world of furries, and knew that they had finally found a community where they truly belonged.\
From then on, Alex was proud to be a furry and enjoyed expressing themselves through their art and costumes. They were grateful to have found a community where they could be themselves and be accepted for who they are.\
}