{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Once upon a time, there was a transgender furry named Luna. Luna had always felt out of place in her human body and longed to fully embrace her identity as a wolf. She spent her days dreaming of running wild and free, with a pack of her own kind.\
One day, Luna discovered the world of furries and finally found a community where she belonged. She began to express herself through her fursona, a wolf with a beautiful blue and purple coat.\
As Luna delved deeper into the furry community, she also began to explore her gender identity. She came out as transgender and began the process of transitioning. It was a difficult journey, but with the support of her furry friends, Luna was able to embrace her true self.\
Finally, the day came when Luna was ready to fully embrace her identity as a wolf. She attended her first furry convention in a stunning wolf costume, complete with a fluffy tail and ears. Luna felt like she was finally home, among her pack.\
As she explored the convention and met other furries, Luna realized that she was not alone. There were many other trans furries just like her, who had also found acceptance and belonging in the furry community.\
From then on, Luna lived her life as her true self, a transgender furry wolf. She was proud of who she was and knew that she had a pack of supportive friends who loved and accepted her for who she was.\
The end.\
}