{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2638
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Once upon a time, there was a transgender furry named Alex. Growing up, Alex always felt like something was off. They didn't feel like they fit in with their peers and didn't understand why. It wasn't until they discovered the furry community that everything clicked into place.\
For the first time, Alex felt like they belonged. They loved the idea of being able to express themselves through a furry alter-ego and the community was incredibly accepting and supportive. As they delved deeper into the community, they began to realize that they were transgender.\
The realization was both scary and liberating. Scary because they didn't know what the future held, but liberating because they finally had a name for the feeling of not quite fitting in. With the support of the furry community, Alex began to explore their gender identity and eventually transitioned.\
The transition was not easy, but with the love and support of their friends, both furry and not, they were able to make it through. Now, as a transgender furry, Alex feels more comfortable and true to themselves than ever before. They continue to be an active member of the furry community and use their experiences to support and mentor other trans furries.\
Alex's story is a reminder that it is never too late to be true to oneself and that there is a community out there for everyone.\
}