<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>
	<title>F. O. B. Detroit: George W. Mason</title>
<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>
<h2>F. O. B. Detroit: George W. Mason</h2><pre>__________________________________________________________________

Music on "F. O. B. Detroit", is of a patriotic and inspiring theme. Every 
program includes numbers by the WJR Orchestra and WJR Chorus. Following is a 
sample script:

BY THE PRODUCTION DEPT., WJR, THE GOODWILL STATION, FISHER BLDG.

"F. O. B. Detroit" -- Saturday, April 11, 1942 -- 3:30--4:00 P. M.
__________________________________________________________________


ORCHESTRA: FANFARE

ANNOUNCER: F. O. B. DETROIT!

ORCHESTRA: THEME . . . FADE ON CUE FOR . . .

ANNOUNCER: From WJR, The Goodwill Station . . .

GREMMER: Detroit reports!

ANNOUNCER: To Americans everywhere!

GREMMER: From the men on the home front to the men in the front lines . . . 
news of action in Detroit's arsenal for VICTORY! A special message on War 
Production from George W. Mason, President of Nash-Kelvinator Corporation ... 
WE'RE MARCHING FOR VICTORY AND FOR OUR BOYS

ANNOUNCER: IN . . . F. O. B. DETROIT!

ORCHESTRA: FULL TO END

ANNOUNCER: America on the march. America on the alert expressed by orchestra 
and chorus . . . "We Must Be Vigilant".

ORCHESTRA: "WE MUST BE VIGILANT"

ANNOUNCER: Now for a Morton Gould arrangement of a past favorite . . . "The 
Parade of the Wooden Soldiers".

ORCHESTRA: "PARADE OF THE WOODEN SOLDIERS"

ORCHESTRA: FANFARE FOR SALUTE

ANNOUNCER: A Salute to the Auto Industry!

GREMMER: We salute the automotive industry who this week received praise from 
Donald M. Nelson, chief of the War Production Board. This industry will be 
turning out War Goods at a capacity rate at least two months ahead of the 
schedule laid down when the industry's assembly lines were dismantled in 
February! This is the speed that proves our mettle, that insures our victory, 
that shows the world what Americans can do! Automotive engineers and workers 
-- we salute you!

ORCHESTRA: INTRO FOR AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL

CHORUS: AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL

ANNOUNCER: Music for the United Nations marching to VICTORY. John Phillip 
Sousa's "Hands Across the Sea".

ORCHESTRA: "HANDS ACROSS THE SEA"

ORCHESTRA: ANDANTE RELIGIOSO . . . FADE ON CUE FOR:

ANNOUNCER: A message to you F. O. B. A report from Detroit!

ORCHESTRA: SURGE AND FADE FOR . . .

GREMMER: (INTRODUCTION) Here to speak to you today is a Detroit business man 
who has been building things all his life -- building them quickly and in 
large quantities. The greatest part of his business life has been devoted to 
the organization and management of mass production manufacturing. It is said 
of him that he can operate almost any machine in any of his plants. He is 
president of the Nash-Kelvinator Corporation -- one of Detroit's largest 
industrial concerns . . . builders of Nash automobiles and Kelvinator 
household appliances. Now this company has changed over all of its facilities 
to the manufacture of products that will help America win the war. Mr. and 
Mrs. American Citizen ... we present George W. Mason, President of Nash-
Kelvinator Corp.

MR. MASON: (SPEECH) "WE are witnessing in America today one of the _greatest_ 
_transformations_ that has ever taken place in a nation.

"Our thoughts and acts are no longer regulated to serve ourselves as 
individuals. _Every_ _man_ and _every_ _group_ _of_ _men_ are dependent upon 
one another for their safety, their very existence. As a nation we are trying 
our best, to accustom ourselves, to the full realization, that OUR LIVES ARE 
IN EACH OTHER'S HANDS.

"We can thank God we are an industrial nation. We can be thankful that the 
American system of private enterprise has prepared us so well for the tasks we 
are doing and the ones that lie ahead.

"I am proud to be a part of the automobile industry because of what it has 
accomplished before and SINCE the declaration of war.

"I believe that this horrible and terrific race for production of engines of 
death will be won by America, even against the almost unbelievable lead of the 
Axis Powers. I have that faith because of my knowledge of what the automobile 
industry has contributed to the strength, the mobility and the capacity of 
this country.

"America is better able to build for war, better able to produce planes and 
battleships, tanks and guns, because of the automobile industry. But I wonder 
if we realize the profound influence that this industry has exerted on the 
millions of people who own, drive and service the motor cars of America? Mr. 
America is a _master_ of machinery _because_ of the automobile.

"It is my belief that the accomplishment of American industry since entering 
the war four months ago represents the greatest industrial accomplishment in 
the history of civilization -- in its building of plants and machines, in its 
engineering, in its pooling of experience and facilities, in its organizing of 
personnel and in its actual production of finished war material. No other 
nation has equalled or can equal this. Without it our nation would be 
_helpless_ _today_.

"All of the facilities of Nash-Kelvinator Corporation are devoted to war work. 
We have eleven separate manufacturing plants, located in four states and a 
plant in Canada and one in England engaged in war work. One of these plants, 
which grew out of an unused warehouse, is now producing propellers for multi-
engined bombers.

"Large and powerful as these propellers are, they require the highest type of 
precision manufacture and the top skill of experienced men. Soon there will be 
a second and larger plant engaged in this propeller work. In another plant we 
are preparing to build the world's most powerful motors. They are designed to 
carry American fighting planes faster and higher, than anything known to our 
enemies today. We have undertaken to build, in their entirety, huge four-
engined transport planes with new record-carrying capacity and cruising 
radius. The propellers and motors are being made under license from United 
Aircraft Corporation, America's foremost aircraft propeller and motor 
manufacturer.

"We are also building secret war products upon which I am not at liberty to 
report. Our goal is to produce war material between three and four times as 
fast as our _greatest_ _peace_-_time_ _year_ _production_.

"I recount these things, not because Nash-Kelvinator is in any way unique in 
the automobile industry, but to report to you a specific example of what is 
happening today on the manufacturing front of the war.

"It is my feeling that here in the middlewest, here in our plants, in our 
laboratories, here at our machines and production lines, we know America is at 
war. We know that OUR LIVES ARE IN EACH OTHER'S HANDS. We know the war can be 
won, that it _will_ be won. And we know that _on_ how well and how quickly we 
build the tools of war will depend the number of sons and brothers who return 
to us after the war. Again I repeat, OUR LIVES ARE IN EACH OTHER'S HANDS".

GREMMER: You have heard George W. Mason, president of Nash-Kelvinator 
Corporation, speak to you on War Production . . . This has been a report from 
Detroit!

ORCHESTRA: ANDANTE RELIGIOSO FOR TAG

ANNOUNCER: We're keeping 'em rolling . . . keeping 'em flying to assure "An 
America for All".

ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS: "AN AMERICA FOR ALL"

ANNOUNCER: From our musicomedy catalogue the orchestra and chorus with 
favorites from the "New Moon".

ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS: "NEW MOON MEDLEY"

ORCHESTRA AND CHORUS: "ARMS FOR THE LOVE OF AMERICA" . . . FADE FOR:

ANNOUNCER: From WJR, The Goodwill Station . . .

GREMMER: DETROIT'S REPORT ON WAR PRODUCTION.

ANNOUNCER: A salute from the home front to the men on the front line. Music 
and song for America working . . . in F. O. B. Detroit!

ORCHESTRA: FULL FOR FILL

ANNOUNCER: THIS IS THE COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM.

ORCHESTRA: FULL FOR FIFTEEN SECOND FILL





</pre>
<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a898caea330dde',m:'803e55e51d5b47fa08ea26e68f292acdb4cbc761-1614834613-1800-AXA5dWtYr1rUK/q706B9qDcd9mvY3Ih8EcmmmTKXC/bwypsVzA9gulB1gFjjylxFXXivfHkpM4+a6e7gtZ0CC86qW2l2LEK6sAEiGi6xzvnD3foe/9FJrpCvCK/pQwMiJA==',s:[0x6afc7a1627,0x44836d7d5c],}})();</script></body>
</html>
