<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>

        <title>ABC: Headline Edition</title>

<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>

<h1>ABC: Headline Edition</h1><pre><u>CAST</u>:
ANCHOR, Taylor Grant
ANNOUNCER



ANCHOR: "Headline Edition," Taylor Grant speaking, May fifteenth, Nineteen 
Fifty-Three.

ANNOUNCER: The American Broadcasting Company presents "Headline Edition" with 
Taylor Grant.

ANCHOR: In Washington, General Bradley's speech today was one of several 
interesting news developments dealing with our military defenses. Here's a 
summary by Gunnar Back.

SOUND: ELEVEN SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANCHOR: We seem to be unable to contact Washington at this time. Let's try 
once again. Our cue to Washington is, "Here is a summary by Gunnar Back."

SOUND: ELEVEN SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANCHOR: (WITH A CHUCKLE) Sorry, we seem to be unable -- for some inexplicable 
reason -- to contact correspondent Gunnar Back in Washington. (DRY) Even as we 
have contacted him every night for the past eight years. (RECOVERS) Well, uh, 
the speech by General Bradley (PAUSE) ---- as you may have heard (PAUSE) ---- 
was before the Women's National Press Club, and it was one in which he told 
(PAUSE) ---- the assembled ladies that the United States must spend heavily on 
military readiness as far into the future as we can see at this time.

Now then, to the nation's sports fans, the biggest news in quite a while is 
building tonight in Chicago, where world heavyweight champion Rocky Marciano 
is about to meet that challenge from ex-champ Jersey Joe Walcott. We sent 
correspondent Tom Casey to the weighing-in ceremonies today and he recorded 
this report at that dramatic scene.

SOUND: SEVEN SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANCHOR: Well, mother told me there would be days like this. (PAUSE) Shall we 
try once again for Chicago? Calling Tom Casey in Chicago. Our cue is, "this 
report at that dramatic scene."

SOUND: NINE SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANCHOR: Some nights you can't make a thousand dollars. Unfortunately, we had 
been told earlier today that (PAUSE) ---- Tom Casey had recorded a very 
fascinating report at the weighing-in ceremonies in which he had the voices of 
both Joe Walcott and Rocky Marciano. Don't know how the betting is going right 
at the moment. Don't know as we should report it if we did know. Uh, matter of 
fact, haven't a piece of copy about the fight tonight except that we know it's 
going to be a very interesting one and a very exciting one, just as it was the 
last time they met. (FOUR-SECOND PAUSE) ----

The weigh-in ceremonies took place at the Chicago stadium and that's where 
correspondent Casey had prepared for us that excellent report which you, and 
I, have been unable to hear, at this time.

(DRY) Let's see what else we have in the news to talk about this evening on a 
memorable "Headline Edition." At least, to me.

SOUND: SLAPS DESK

ANCHOR: Suppose we come back to you in a-- in a-- just a moment or two, on 
<u>this</u> cue, "I'll be back in a minute with more news."

ANNOUNCER: (CAN BARELY KEEP A STRAIGHT FACE) "Headline Edition" is one of over 
sixty <u>top</u> ABC News shows brought to you each week by a distinguished 
staff of reporters, analysts, and commentators. ABC specializes in swift, 
accurate, and complete reporting of the latest happenings here and abroad. 
(STARTS TO LOSE IT) That kind of news coverage doesn't just happen-- 

SOUND: EIGHT SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANNOUNCER: A trained newsman fills in the coloring that brings-- (LAUGHS)

SOUND: SEVENTEEN SECONDS OF SILENCE

ANNOUNCER: A trained newsman fills in the coloring that brings the event to 
life, but it takes an experienced correspondent to know how that event fits 
the overall news pattern. For penetrating analyses, stay tuned throughout the 
day and night to ABC. Now, here again, is Taylor Grant and "Headline Edition."

ANCHOR: With portions transcribed-- What portions? That's today's "Headline 
Edition."


________________________________
Originally broadcast 15 May 1953

</pre>



<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a89847cd5702fb',m:'5e665a0f6b23b54d72a4b2006c6fdd643ec56566-1614834591-1800-AQwNFd8eDdj8wj/V9EAWbFw/s0jU7I/33ZbvWGko2JvojhYIWMCq9fJ2X+YKa4q9qkg5MCY3aUZ+ijnuI+xchFLZI98xTyzRo4R/Ucs/dnsWTH6e+Cw20b4x0+l1c03sTB4pSMWWP6ZgeHPTx98oGoc=',s:[0x88ea8322a7,0x52f3c069d9],}})();</script></body>
</html>
