<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>

        <title>Suspense: The Second Door</title>

<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>

<h1>The Second Door</h1><pre>Suspense
The Second Door
May 06 1962


<u>CAST</u>:

<u>The Suspense Team</u>:
ANNOUNCER
2ND ANNCR
JULIE LONDON, singer
SINGERS

<u>Dramatis Personae</u>:
GORDON SAUNDERS
DR. HOWARD EDERLY
MERILLA
FARMER, New England accent



MUSIC: CHORD

ANNOUNCER: SUSPENSE! 

MUSIC: CHORD SEGUES TO AN EERIE, MELANCHOLY THEME BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES, SLOWLY) Perhaps I'm a coward. I don't know. In the years 
that have passed I've never told this story to anyone. I've tried to justify 
my silence by assuring myself that no one would believe me. But sometimes I 
feel the guilt. Sometimes I feel it so strongly that I can run out into the 
street, stop the first man I see, and tell him everything about the white 
house with the yellow shutters and the small brown chimneys. But then I think, 
"Why frighten him?" Better that he go on believing that life is real. Life is 
earnest. And the grave is not its goal.

ANNOUNCER: In a moment, Act One of "The Second Door," starring and written 
especially for SUSPENSE by Robert Readick. This first portion of SUSPENSE is 
brought to you by the makers of Marlboro Cigarettes.

MUSIC: COMMERCIAL JINGLE ... MELLOW JAZZ PIANO ... THEN IN BG--

2ND ANNCR: Julie London sings "The Marlboro Song."

MUSIC: PIANO BLOSSOMS INTO A FULL BAND ARRANGEMENT DURING FOLLOWING--

LONDON: (SINGS) Why don't you settle back--

SINGERS: Settle back--

LONDON: (SINGS) And have a full-flavored smoke?
Settle back--

SINGERS: Settle back--

LONDON: (SINGS) --with a Marlboro.
Make yourself comfortable
Whenever you smoke.
Have a Marlboro Cigarette.

MUSIC: BRIEF PIANO SOLO

LONDON: (SINGS) You get a lot to like with a Marlboro filter--

SINGERS: Filter--

LONDON: (SINGS) Flavor--

SINGERS: Flavor--

LONDON: (SINGS) Pack or box.

2ND ANNCR: Try Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste.

MUSIC: JINGLE OUT ... THEN EERIE, MELANCHOLY THEME BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) Some time ago, I made arrangements to rent a completely 
isolated house in the northwestern part of the country. The last leg of the 
journey there was made in an old station wagon. It was very late at night when 
we arrived and I instructed the man who drove it to let me off at the entrance 
to the long driveway, as I wanted to walk up to the house alone.

SOUND: NOCTURNAL NOISES (CRICKETS, ET CETERA) ... PLUS AN EERIE THEREMIN-LIKE 
TONE ... BOTH CONTINUE IN BG

GORDON: (NARRATES) With a heavy suitcase in each hand, I started up the long 
gentle slope toward the house.

SOUND: GORDON'S FOOTSTEPS TRUDGE THE GRAVEL DRIVEWAY ... THEN IN BG

GORDON: (NARRATES) At a point perhaps thirty or forty yards on, the road 
turned sharply to the left and up ahead it seemed there must have been a patch 
where the foliage of the overhanging trees grew less thickly together -- for 
amid the utter darkness, a thin, eerie beam of light filtered down. And in it, 
there appeared to be some sort of a shape.

SOUND: GORDON'S FOOTSTEPS STOP

GORDON: (NARRATES) I had the impression that what I saw up ahead in this 
driveway in the middle of nowhere was a woman - in a bright red dress - seated 
imperturbably in a chair. And suddenly, after I'd taken but a few steps 
further, this thing that I had been watching moved -- definitely, clearly. For 
an instant, I thought, an animal. But whatever it was remained in the 
filtering of light and continued to move back and forth--

SOUND: SLOW CREAK OF WOODEN ROCKING CHAIR

GORDON: (NARRATES) --in a slow, rhythmic pattern. In the sort of to-and-fro 
motion that one might set up in a rocking chair. 

SOUND: THEREMIN-LIKE TONE FADES OUT WITH--

GORDON: (CALLS, FRIENDLY) Hello! (NO RESPONSE) Hello? (NO ANSWER) Who is that 
up there?

SOUND: NOCTURNAL BACKGROUND AND ROCKING CHAIR FILL A PAUSE ... CHAIR GROWS 
LOUDER BEHIND--

GORDON: (NARRATES) I strained my eyes to bring some sense of detail to this 
apparition, but, incredibly, with each step I took toward it in the darkness, 
the dimmer it became -- until, inconceivably, when I finally arrived at the 
spot where it should have been the brightest, there was total darkness.

SOUND: NOCTURNAL BACKGROUND AND ROCKING CHAIR FILL A PAUSE 

GORDON: (NARRATES) And there was nothing there. Nothing but the unmistakable 
sound of a rocking chair -- rocking back and forth. Back and forth. Back and 
forth.

MUSIC: ACCENT/TRANSITION ... THEN IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) After a few minutes, the sound of that squeaking chair 
slowly faded away and I made my way on to the house where I lay awake through 
the night trying to find some reasonable explanation. As soon as it was 
daylight, I went back to that spot on the driveway where I found nothing to 
make the matter more understandable. And suddenly, quite distinctly, there was 
the sound of a man's voice calling out to me.

SOUND: DIURNAL BACKGROUND (BIRDS CHIRP, ET CETERA)

EDERLY: (OFF, CONGENIAL) Hello, there!

GORDON: (NARRATES) And quite nearby a man stepped abruptly out onto the 
driveway, having come apparently along a footpath leading through the woods.

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

EDERLY: (CLOSER) Well, I see you're an early riser, too. Lovely time of the 
day to walk about. My name's Ederly; Howard Ederly. I thought as long as we 
were going to be neighbors that I'd make--

GORDON: (PUZZLED) Neighbors?

EDERLY: Yes, I assume you've taken over the Lonegan place.

GORDON: Well, yes. Yes, I have.

EDERLY: Well, I have the place just north of you.

GORDON: Well, it was made perfectly clear there wasn't another house around 
here for miles.

EDERLY: Oh, that's true enough, except for mine. Originally, you see, it was 
sort of a gatehouse, but it was cut off, remodeled, and sold to me.

GORDON: When was this?

EDERLY: Uh, this is our seventh year. Course, we use it only in the summer.

GORDON: We?

EDERLY: Yes, my daughter and I. Er, would you care to walk back with me to my 
house? I'd like you to meet Merilla.

GORDON: Tell me something, Mr. Ederly. Your, um-- Your daughter--?

EDERLY: Yes?

GORDON: (BEAT) Does she own a bright red dress?

EDERLY: (TAKEN ABACK) What a curious question.

GORDON: Nonetheless, I wish you'd answer it.

EDERLY: Well, I'm - afraid I don't know. (LIGHTLY) Why? Do you have a 
preference for women in red dresses?

GORDON: By no means. Do you have a - rocking chair, Mr. Ederly?

EDERLY: (CONFUSED) A - a what?

GORDON: A rocking chair.

EDERLY: (CHUCKLES) You're pulling my leg, aren't you?

GORDON: No, not at all. (BEAT) Do you have one?

EDERLY: (SLOWLY) Well, yes. Yes, we <u>do</u> have a rocking chair.

MUSIC: ACCENT ... THEN BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) The Ederly house was a one-story building, white with 
yellow shutters and two small brown chimneys. It sat in the center of a 
moderate-size clearing. The surface of this clearing was made up entirely of 
rock -- actually of one enormous rock whose top was flat as a sidewalk and 
level with the surrounding earth.

SOUND: DOOR OPENS

EDERLY: (CALLS) Merilla?

MERILLA: (OFF) Yes, father?

EDERLY: We have a visitor.

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES

MERILLA: (CLOSER) Hello. We thought we heard someone drive up last night.

EDERLY: (INTRODUCTIONS) Uh, this is Mr. Saunders. My, uh, daughter Merilla.

GORDON: (BEAT, SMITTEN) How do you do?

MERILLA: (ALSO SMITTEN) It's a pleasure, Mr. Saunders. You have no idea how 
much.

MUSIC: ROMANTIC ACCENT ... THEN IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) It was strange how attracted this girl and I were to each 
other from the very first. There was nothing precisely in what she said that 
would indicate how she felt, but there was something - unmistakable in her 
attitude, her manner -- and the expression in her eyes.

EDERLY: How, er, long do you, er, plan to be staying up here, Mr. Saunders?

GORDON: Oh, just until I unwind a little; maybe a month or so. (NARRATES) 
Curiously, the only chair in the room was the rocker that Mr. Ederly had said 
he owned. I took a step toward it.

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

EDERLY: (QUICKLY) I - I wouldn't sit there, Mr. Saunders.

GORDON: Oh, really? Why not?

EDERLY: Well, it's - it's, uh, uh--

GORDON: Yes?

EDERLY: (UNCONVINCINGLY) Well, it's a little unstable. Some of the rungs are 
loose.

GORDON: (BEAT) Oh, I see. It, um-- It seems - rather old.

MERILLA: (HELPFULLY) That chair belonged to my mother. She died last year. My 
father's sentimental about it.

EDERLY: (TO GORDON, STILL UNCONVINCING) Uh, I, er, hesitated to mention it. 
(CHANGES SUBJECT) Well, er, Merilla, have you prepared that breakfast for me?

MERILLA: Yes. It's in the kitchen.

EDERLY: Well, then I suggest I get to it. Why don't you and Mr. Saunders take 
a stroll about and get to know each other?

MERILLA: (LIKES THE IDEA, TO GORDON) Shall we?

EDERLY: I'll, er, be working when you get back.

GORDON: Oh? What sort of work do you do, Mr. Ederly?

MERILLA: (CORRECTS HIM) <u>Doctor</u> Ederly.

GORDON: Oh, really? Of what, medicine?

EDERLY: (CHUCKLES) Oh, hardly. Of, uh, philosophy.

MERILLA: (IMPATIENT, TO GORDON) Oh, now let's go. You two can chat another 
time.

GORDON: (NODS ADIEU) Doctor.

EDERLY: (FADES AS GORDON MOVES OFF) Uh, see you later, Mr. Saunders.

SOUND: DOOR OPENS AND SHUTS AS GORDON AND MERILLA EXIT THE HOUSE

GORDON: Don't you think you'll be a little chilly?

MERILLA: (HADN'T THOUGHT OF THAT) Oh. Do you think so? I-- Well, I'll get a 
jacket.

MUSIC: SNEAKS IN BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) Through the window, I could see her open the closet. And 
there, hanging in plain sight, was a bright red dress. I said nothing to her 
about it, hoping that in some way she'd get around to mentioning it or at 
least let something drop that would help explain what I'd seen in the 
driveway. But she didn't.

We strolled about for some time and she spoke only of inconsequentialities, 
and when I asked her something specific about her background, she would 
respond with a non sequitur or direct my attention to some flower or passing 
bird. But, withal, her attitude remained warm and friendly. I might even say 
inviting.

And despite everything, I felt myself being more and more drawn to her. At one 
point, I couldn't resist the impulse to reach out for her hand.

MUSIC: ABRUPTLY OUT WITH--

MERILLA: (TERRIFIED) Don't touch me!

GORDON: What?

MERILLA: Please!

GORDON: But I don't understand. Why should--?

MERILLA: Don't come any closer. 

GORDON: Merilla, what is it?

MERILLA: We'd - better go back now.

GORDON: What's the matter with you?

MERILLA: Nothing. I'm perfectly all right.

GORDON: When I tried to take hold of your hand, you backed away from me as if 
I were a serpent. Why?

MERILLA: Oh, please--

GORDON: Why did you do that? You looked absolutely terrified.

MERILLA: I can't explain--

GORDON: Can't explain? Why can't you explain?

MERILLA: I'm-- I don't <u>know</u> why I did that.

GORDON: Well, are you afraid of me?

MERILLA: No.

GORDON: Well, then give me your hand. (BEAT) Why won't you give me your hand?

MERILLA: Leave me alone, will you? Please! Just leave me alone.

GORDON: (NARRATES, QUICKLY) She suddenly turned and started to run down the 
path, and at that exact moment, from a distance, we heard a voice calling out 
-- screaming out, rather -- as if in anguish.

EDERLY: (OFF, ANGUISHED CRY)

GORDON: (NARRATES) The path branched off just ahead and I ran quickly in the 
direction of the scream.

EDERLY: (OFF, ANGUISHED CRY)

GORDON: (NARRATES) It was only a short distance to the point where the path 
came out of the woods and I found myself on the cleared land that surrounded 
the Lonegan house. (BEAT) And there was no one there.

EDERLY: (ANGUISHED CRY, CLOSER)

GORDON: (NARRATES) Like the previous night when I'd heard the sound of the 
rocking chair coming out of nowhere, there was now only this agonizing scream 
for help again and again.

EDERLY: (OFF, ANGUISHED CRY TWICE MORE)

MUSIC: ACCENT/TRANSITION ... THEN BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) Like before, the sound eventually faded away, but not 
before I had the distinct impression that what I had been listening to was the  
voice of Dr. Ederly. I started back toward his house, but this time 
circuitously. To make certain that I wasn't seen, I approached from the rear 
of the house. Then, keeping low, I scurried up to a partly opened window. 
Merilla and Dr. Ederly were inside.

MERILLA: (ANNOYED) It was <u>your</u> suggestion that I walk with him in the woods. 
If you hadn't--

EDERLY: (PEEVED) Well, how could I know that you were going to behave like an 
infatuated adolescent? Of <u>course</u> he was going to touch you. Batting your eyes, 
talking in whispers. What kind of behavior is that?

MERILLA: Oh, I did no such thing.

EDERLY: Of course you did! It was outright flirtation. And then running -- 
imagine that! -- <u>running</u>!

MERILLA: What else <u>could</u> I have done?

EDERLY: You could have used your wits.

MERILLA: That screaming you did for help, that--

EDERLY: It was the only possible way to distract him. I'd rather he was 
puzzled over <u>that</u> than have him discover the whole truth from you. Now, I'm 
going down to his house and see if I can double-talk our way out of this. 
Don't leave here until I get back.

MUSIC: FILLS A PAUSE ... THEN IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) For a moment, Merilla stood in the open doorway and then 
she turned and went to the bend of a long hallway where there were two heavy 
doors. She unlocked the nearer one and went in. Then, as quietly as possible, 
I made my way around to the front of the house and down the hallway to the 
door that Merilla had gone to. It was slightly ajar and I could see most of 
the room with no difficulty. At one side, there was an enormous workbench 
completely strewn over with an infinite assortment of tools and electronic 
equipment -- wires, tubes, lights, and meters. Merilla was seated before what 
at first appeared to be an ordinary television set. But there were curious 
labels above the three knobs that she was carefully adjusting. They read, 
respectively: latitude, longitude, and altitude. Then she flipped a switch--

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

SOUND: SWITCH FLIPS ... THE EERIE THEREMIN-LIKE TONE FADES IN ... CONTINUES IN 
BG

GORDON: (NARRATES) --and an image appeared on the screen. It was undoubtedly 
the Lonegan house. And it was a remarkably acceptable illusion, not only 
because the image was sharp and the coloring perfect, but because, 
astonishingly, the house was reproduced in its full three dimensions. The 
object had roundness, depth, perspective. Except for the reduction in size, 
every detail seemed as credible, as palpable, as the original. It seemed as if 
you could reach in and pick the very flowers near the lawn. I stood for a time 
watching this, fascinated by it -- until Dr. Ederly came into view, crossing 
the lawn, approaching the porch.

EDERLY: (OFF, CALLS, FRIENDLY) Oh, Mr. Saunders? (NO ANSWER) Mr. Saunders, are 
you at home?

GORDON: (NARRATES) His voice was entirely free of the usual amplification 
sound of electronic speakers. It was as clear as the miniature image of him 
that walked up to the door and knocked.

SOUND: EDERLY KNOCKS ON DOOR, OFF

GORDON: (NARRATES) And, getting no answer, he went back toward the woods. At 
this point, Merilla must have, uh-- must have heard me move slightly, for she 
suddenly turned and in one motion she clicked off the set and came to her 
feet.

SOUND: SWITCH FLIPS ... AND THEREMIN-LIKE TONE OUT ... AS MERILLA RISES

MERILLA: (ALARMED) What are you--?

GORDON: That device. Did he invent that?

MERILLA: You mustn't stay here. He's coming right back.

GORDON: Well, there doesn't even seem to be an electronic speaker in that 
thing. Are there cameras? Microphones? Or does he merely twist those knobs?

MERILLA: (WORRIED) Oh, if he finds out that you've seen it--

GORDON: Well, why is he keeping this a secret?

MERILLA: (UNCONVINCING) It - it's not perfected.

GORDON: Is that true?

MERILLA: Yes.

GORDON: Merilla, listen to me. You seem to be frightened by something that's 
going on around here. I - I know that <u>I</u> am, and I want to know what it is. 
Now, I also want to help you. There isn't much I can do if you won't tell me 
the truth. Now, what's in that other locked room?

MERILLA: What?

GORDON: In the room next to this.

MERILLA: (EVASIVE) My father works in there.

GORDON: Well, I'm sure he does, but at what? What does he work at in there?

MERILLA: I - can't tell you that.

GORDON: Why not?

MERILLA: Because it's - really <u>his</u> affair.

GORDON: But you <u>do</u> know what it is.

MERILLA: Yes.

GORDON: (BEAT, FIRMLY) You're going to unlock that door, Merilla, and you are 
going to unlock it now. 

MERILLA: No, please.

EDERLY: (IN CLOSE) Well, go on, Merilla. 

MERILLA: (STARTLED GASP) Father!

EDERLY: Why don't you oblige the gentleman? When a man is as curious about 
something as all that, I don't think he should be kept in frustration. 
Merilla, give me the key.

MERILLA: Father, what are you doing?

EDERLY: Give it to me. 

SOUND: EDERLY TAKES KEY ... HIS STEPS BEHIND--

EDERLY: Now, Mr. Saunders, if you'll just step this way.

MUSIC: SNEAKS IN BEHIND GORDON ... CONTINUES IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) We walked to the second door where Dr. Ederly inserted the 
key in the lock--

SOUND: KEY IN LOCK ... DOOR UNLOCKS AND OPENS

GORDON: (NARRATES) --and opened it. I looked into a very small room, the 
floor, walls, and ceiling of which were made entirely of frosted glass. And 
there was nothing else; it was empty. On the outside of the door, there was a 
panel, which he slid aside to reveal three knobs like the others I had seen, 
similarly labeled -- latitude, longitude, and altitude.

MUSIC: OUT

EDERLY: Actually, Mr. Saunders, there are microscopic perforations in the 
glass to admit air. Now, would you be good enough to give me the name of a 
place some distance away.

GORDON: A place?

EDERLY: Anywhere you choose. Anywhere on earth.

GORDON: Some place I, um - I would like to see?

EDERLY: No, Mr. Saunders. Some place you'd like to <u>be</u>.

MUSIC: ACCENT ... THEN IN BG

GORDON: (NARRATES) I had no intention of stepping inside Dr. Ederly's glass 
cubicle, but I was curious to see what might appear on the screens, and I gave 
him the general location of the New England farm where I was born. Alongside 
in the hallway, there was a series of bookshelves; it held a selection of 
highly detailed atlases and charts, and from one of these we determined the 
exact location of the farm. Then he carefully adjusted the knobs. I watched 
from the doorway as the glass began to glow with colored light. 

MUSIC: SEGUE TO PASTORAL THEME TO INDICATE A CHANGE OF SCENE ... THEN IN BG

GORDON: (NARRATES) And then suddenly before me: what was for all the world an 
actual pasture -- trees and sky, flowers and grass -- and, in the distance, a 
barn, with a silo leaning like the Tower of Pisa. (EXCITED, TO EDERLY) That 
barn! I played there when I was a child! (NARRATES) Involuntarily, I must have 
taken a step toward it, for I heard Merilla's voice.

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

MERILLA: Don't! Don't go in there!

EDERLY: Be quiet.

GORDON: (NARRATES) I turned around and I saw that Dr. Ederly had a gun in his 
hand.

EDERLY: (GRIM) Stay where you are. (MOCKINGLY) Enjoy yourself. Play in the 
barn again, Mr. Saunders.

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES AND LOCKS

MUSIC: PASTORAL ... SNEAKS IN BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) And now I was completely engulfed in this farmland scene. 
It was astonishing. It was if I were a very part of it. If I had somehow 
awakened here never having seen those blank glass walls, I would have 
completely believed that I was standing in this open countryside.

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

FARMER: (OFF) Where'd you come from, mister?

GORDON: (NARRATES) I turned and I saw a farmer standing what seemed to be 
about ten yards away.

FARMER: (OFF) Somethin' I can do for ya?

GORDON: Well, uh-- No. No, I, um--

FARMER: (OFF) Whatcha doin' here?

GORDON: Well, I--

FARMER: (OFF) Lose your way?

GORDON: Well, not exactly. You see, I--

FARMER: (OFF, BEAT) Well? Go on.

GORDON: Well, I - I was born here. My family used to own this place. I just 
thought I'd - I'd look--

FARMER: (OFF) Take a look around?

GORDON: Yes.

FARMER: (OFF) What's your name?

GORDON: Gordon Saunders. My father was--

FARMER: (OFF) <u>Dan</u> Saunders! I heard of him. He had the place thirty years ago.

GORDON: That's right.

FARMER: (OFF) Want to see the house?

GORDON: Well, I--

FARMER: (OFF) Then come on.

GORDON: (NARRATES) He turned his back and walked away.

FARMER: (OFF) Bring that rake along, will ya?

MUSIC: SNEAKS IN BEHIND GORDON--

GORDON: (NARRATES) It was lying on the ground near my feet. I bent down. But 
my hand didn't close about the handle of the rake as it would have ordinarily, 
but rather passed right through it as if it weren't there. Nothing but sounds 
and images projected across a continent.

MUSIC: OUT WITH--

FARMER: (FARTHER OFF) You coming?

GORDON: (CALLS) Uh, no. No. No, I'd - I'd rather be by myself. I'll just take 
a little walk around, if you don't mind.

FARMER: (FARTHER OFF) Suit yourself. We'll be up at the house if you change 
your mind.

GORDON: (CALLS) Well, thank you very much. (BEAT, NARRATES, SLOWLY) Then he 
turned and - and walked further away. He went on. Then suddenly there was the 
sound of a key--

SOUND: KEY IN LOCK ... DOOR OPENS ... THEN A SCUFFLE IN AGREEMENT WITH 
FOLLOWING--

GORDON: (NARRATES, QUICKLY) --and the door opened back into Dr. Ederly's 
hallway. Somehow in an effort to save me, Merilla must have managed to get the 
key and the gun away from her father, had quickly opened the door of the 
cubicle, and thrown the gun down the length of the long hallway. 

EDERLY: (GRUNTS WITH EFFORT AS HE STRUGGLES WITH MERILLA BEHIND--)

GORDON: (NARRATES) As I came out, she was grappling with him, to keep him from 
reaching it. Before I'd taken two steps toward them, he'd broken loose and was 
running for the gun. It was obvious that he'd reach it before either of us, 
and in a moment we'd both be helpless. I had a revolver in my suitcase at the 
Lonegan place and I knew that our only chance was for me to get it. I ran out 
of the house and into the woods.

MUSIC: AGITATED TRANSITION ... THEN IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) I got the gun - and rushed back with it toward their house. 
I stopped - just short of the clearing. I walked carefully to the edge.

MUSIC: SEGUE TO EERIE THEME TO INDICATE A CHANGE OF SCENE ... THEN IN BG

GORDON: (NARRATES, SLOWLY) The white house with the yellow shutters and the 
two small brown chimneys was no more. It had vanished completely. Not a trace 
of it. I walked out into the clearing -- bewildered, shocked, hardly able to 
accept the evidence of my senses.

EDERLY: How do you know, Mr. Saunders, that all of life is not an illusion?

GORDON: (NARRATES) I didn't even bother to turn or look about, for I knew I'd 
see nothing.

MUSIC: OUT, DURING ABOVE

GORDON: Can you hear me, Merilla?

MERILLA: (SADLY) Yes. I can hear you. I can see you.

GORDON: Are you all right?

EDERLY: She's perfectly all right.

GORDON: The house was never really here, was it?

EDERLY: I'm afraid not.

GORDON: Nor were you. The walk we took in the woods, Merilla--?

EDERLY: Like your visit with the farmer.

GORDON: And it <u>was</u> you in the red dress?

MERILLA: Yes. I'm sorry.

EDERLY: I was doing some experiments; there was a short circuit, and the image 
appeared in the driveway.

GORDON: And when I tried to touch your hand, Merilla, in the woods?

EDERLY: She moved away. We were careful that you never actually touched 
<u>anything</u> connected with us -- ourselves, the rocking chair. Even the doors of 
the house were held or left open for you.

GORDON: The floor--?

EDERLY: What you felt under your feet was the same flat rock you're standing 
on now. What you <u>saw</u> was the illusion of floorboards. No, no; nothing to 
touch. As yet.

GORDON: As yet?

EDERLY: We have five senses, haven't we, Mr. Saunders? You were quite beguiled 
by the use of only two. Oh, I expect to have no particular difficulties with 
odors and tastes. But the sense of touch-- You'd be interested to know that 
I've begun my experiments with the sense of touch, Mr. Saunders, and with very 
encouraging results. (POINTEDLY) I'd considered conducting another experiment 
now -- with you as the subject. With you, and with a bullet from my gun.

GORDON: Oh?

EDERLY: But Merilla has pleaded your case. She's convinced me that you're too 
sensible to tell anyone about all this; that no one would believe you.

GORDON: I don't imagine they would.

EDERLY: She's also promised never to try to get in touch with you. And, of 
course, I have a way of keeping an eye on you, don't I?

GORDON: That house actually <u>does</u> exist somewhere, doesn't it?

EDERLY: Yes. But you won't try to find it, will you, Mr. Saunders?

GORDON: And of course your name isn't Ederly.

EDERLY: I should think not. You know, I've thought of an interesting 
experiment we might conduct in the place of the one with the bullet. (TO 
MERILLA) Merilla, I thought that since you've become so fond of our friend 
that you might want to say your last goodbye with the proper finality; that 
you might want to say it -- with a kiss.

MUSIC: EERIE, MELANCHOLY THEME ... THEN IN BG--

GORDON: (NARRATES) For a moment or two, there was silence. And then I heard 
Merilla's voice -- very close. Almost in a whisper. 

MERILLA: I've never heard your first name. Would you tell it to me now?

GORDON: (BEAT) It's Gordon.

MERILLA: (BEAT) Goodbye, Gordon.

GORDON: (NARRATES) And then I felt Merilla's lips on mine -- gently -- a 
tender pressure that lingered on my lips for a moment -- and then was gone.

EDERLY: And now, Mr. Saunders-- Now that I have given you your life, would you 
tell me, in return, if you felt Merilla's kiss?

GORDON: (BEAT) Yes, I did.

EDERLY: Clearly? Unmistakably?

GORDON: (BEAT) It was, in every sense, the kiss of a lovely woman.

MUSIC: FADES OUT

GORDON: Except--

EDERLY: Yes? Except what?

GORDON: (BEAT) That it was cold, doctor. (BEAT) Cold as death.

MUSIC: CURTAIN

ANNOUNCER: SUSPENSE!

MUSIC: CHORD

ANNOUNCER: You've been listening to "The Second Door," starring and written 
especially for SUSPENSE by Robert Readick.

MUSIC: SUSPENSE THEME ... THEN BEHIND ANNOUNCER--

ANNOUNCER: SUSPENSE is produced and directed by Bruno Zirato, Jr. Music 
supervision by Ethel Huber. Sound patterns by Walter Otto. Heard in tonight's 
story were Barbara Cassar as Merilla, Paul McGrath as Dr. Ederly, and Bob 
Dryden as the farmer. This is Stuart Metz speaking. Listen again next week 
when we return with "Hide and Seek," written by Bob Corcoran, another tale 
well-calculated to keep you in--

MUSIC: CHORD

ANNOUNCER: SUSPENSE! 

Now, from SUSPENSE, and from CBS Radio Network stations everywhere, 
anniversary greetings to radio station KSL, Salt Lake City, marking its 
fortieth year of operation today. To fifty-thousand-watt KSL, affiliated with 
CBS Radio since Nineteen Thirty-Two, many more years of success. 

This is the CBS Radio Network.


</pre>
<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a899eb8b68748a',m:'6f1e3cfbebae1646aecea01d7305663b4fa5d355-1614834659-1800-AS6ggQObzwKNKRob4Kfauq0Sgk3wnw78TftuoBo+JsR/5itDZ9xjQv1qRG7VrE/OmovjJ7wYdjJUK09MmwDt9t3sVkf3VKGTIizYYtJI6j3oDdBvaOHLXxwEI8OdYXewKJGoW+rEzVCUqM6yxzjSzkM=',s:[0xdddd1c97e2,0xaee68643c2],}})();</script></body>
</html>
