<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">

<html>
<head>

        <title>This Is My Best: Miss Dilly Says No</title>

<script async src='/cdn-cgi/bm/cv/669835187/api.js'></script></head>

<body>

<h1>Miss Dilly Says No</h1><pre>This Is My Best
Miss Dilly Says No
Mar 20 1945


<u>CAST</u>:
ORSON WELLES, host
ANNOUNCER

MISS DILLY, lovelorn secretary
HORATIO, bashful young financier
MARILLA, Miss Dilly's dry-humored co-worker
GLADSTONE, Miss Dilly's boss, movie studio president
JONAH, Gladstone's obsequious yes-man
TIMOTHY, no-nonsense security guard
DRIVER, nervous, a little desperate



WELLES: Good evening, this is Orson Welles, inviting you to listen now to Ann 
Sothern in "Miss Dilly Says No" on Cresta Blanca's "This Is My Best."

MUSIC: FANFARE ... THEN BEHIND ANNOUNCER--

ANNOUNCER: "This Is My Best"! America's greatest stars in the world's best 
stories, presented each week by Schenley's Cresta Blanca Wine -- wine of 
friendly nature, pride of the vintner's art, symbol of hospitality, compliment 
to honored guests. A wine to serve proudly, saying "This Is My Best." 

MUSIC: OUT ... THEN BRIEF MELODIC JINGLES PUNCTUATE THE FOLLOWING AT [X]

ANNOUNCER: This is Cresta Blanca. C-R-E-S-T-A -- [X] -- B-L-A-N-C-A. [X] 
Cresta -- [X] -- Blanca. [X] Cresta Blanca. [X]

SOUND: APPLAUSE

ANNOUNCER: And now for "Miss Dilly Says No" with Ann Sothern who appears 
through the courtesy of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the producers of "The Picture of 
Dorian Gray."

WELLES: Orson Welles again. We're proud to say that tonight's story has been 
chosen for rebroadcast overseas. And our guest is another source of pride. 
Past argument, Ann Sothern is one of the most extremely scrumptious and 
likewise gifted of stardom's citizenry. Her Maisie is an American institution. 
The heroine she brings to life on "This Is My Best" tonight is no less 
remarkable a personage, believe me. Miss Dilly is the name -- Miss Dilly from 
Theodore Pratt's best selling fable, "Miss Dilly Says No." Scene: That most 
wildly improbable of all the never-never lands on this whirling globe of ours 
-- the grand capital of glamour -- the home of nut burgers and Mike Romanoff 
and Hedda Hopper's hats-- ... You guessed it. Yes, Miss Dilly says "no" where 
"no" is seldom said -- in <u>Hollywood</u>!

MUSIC: OVERTURE

SOUND: PHONE RINGS ... RECEIVER UP

MISS DILLY: Mr. Gladstone's office. Miss Dilly speaking. -- I'm sorry, I'm 
only Mr. Gladstone's secretary.

SOUND: ANOTHER PHONE RINGS

MISS DILLY: Hold on a moment, please.

SOUND: ANOTHER RECEIVER UP

MISS DILLY: Miss Dilly speaking. -- What? No, Mr. Gladstone doesn't want the 
mixed choir or the Swiss bell ringers in the picture. He's decided to use 
Shetland ponies instead. Sorry. ...

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

MISS DILLY: Hello. What's that? Oh, you've got the wrong studio. This is 
<u>Superior</u> Pictures.

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

MISS DILLY: (SIGHS, THEN HUMS A FEW LINES OF "COCKTAILS FOR TWO," WHICH 
ALTERNATES WITH--)

SOUND: MISS DILLY'S ONE-FINGER PECKING AT TYPEWRITER ... A FEW PECKS ALTERNATE 
WITH HER HUMMING EACH LINE OF THE SONG

MUSIC: ORCHESTRA PICKS UP "COCKTAILS FOR TWO" FROM HUMMING ... THEN BEHIND 
WELLES--

WELLES: Miss Dilly, whom you've just met, is secretary to one of Hollywood's 
biggest producers. But Miss Dilly is no ordinary secretary. She's also a 
writer. For the first five years of her endeavors, she's averaged two dozen 
original screen stories, or two a month. This made two hundred and forty in 
all, although it was not her grand total. At the moment, however, Miss Dilly 
has given up all hopes of ever selling a story to the movies, and is 
collecting rejection slips from the book publishers. In fact, only one thing 
keeps Miss Dilly from getting a job in some other industry, and that is Mr. 
Horatio. Mr. Horatio is a member of the board of directors of Superior 
Studios, and Miss Dilly sees him once a year, when he comes to Hollywood to 
attend the annual board meeting. She's had no more success with Mr. Horatio 
than she's had with her stories, but as I pointed out, Miss Dilly is a very 
unusual character. So, in point of fact, is Mr. Horatio. Your obedient servant 
will essay the role, if you'll excuse him, please, while he gets into 
character. Take it away, Miss Dilly.

SOUND: DOOR OPENS

MISS DILLY: (MEEKLY) You rang, Mr. Horatio?

HORATIO: (SMITTEN; FLUSTERED BY HER MERE PRESENCE) Oh--! Why, Miss Dilly! Come 
in, come in. 

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES

HORATIO: Here, take - take - take this chair.

MISS DILLY: (PLEASED) Oh, thank you, Mr. Horatio.

HORATIO: So you're going to help me again this year, hm?

MISS DILLY: Well, I'll be glad to do what I can.

HORATIO: Yes. Yes, er-- Yes, indeed.

MISS DILLY: (AWKWARD CHUCKLE) You wanted to dictate a letter?

HORATIO: (YES) Uh, mm. It goes to Gino Bonelli, Gate House, Horatio Hall, 
Mount Kisco, New York. "Dear Bonelli. I have been thinking over the problem 
which you laid before me just before I left for the Coast, concerning the 
disposition of the Duchess of Bensborough rosebush."

MISS DILLY: Rosebush?

HORATIO: (YES) Mm. The letter's to my gardener. ...

MISS DILLY: (IMPRESSED) Gee. (AWKWARD PAUSE, THEN CHUCKLE) ...

HORATIO: Ah, to continue. (DICTATES) "I had seriously considered planting it 
down near the swimming pool, but I note a tendency to ranginess in the roses 
we placed there last year. It's too far from the house, and I would hardly 
ever see it there. On second thought--" Umm-- (ABRUPTLY, TO MISS DILLY) What 
do you think?

MISS DILLY: I beg your pardon?

HORATIO: Where do you think it should go, Miss Dilly?

[MISS DILLY: Well, I don't know. I don't know what your place is like.

HORATIO: I'll draw you a diagram of the grounds.

<u>BUSINESS: RAPID SKETCHING AS HE TALKS</u>

HORATIO: Here. House here. Stables over here. Gardener's cottages, 
conservatory, swimming pool, guest houses.

MISS DILLY: What...what kind of rose is it?

HORATIO: A small yellow tube rose.

MISS DILLY: They're my favorite. 

HORATIO: Mine, too. That's why I'm being so careful in getting it located.]

MISS DILLY: Well, I guess there's only one thing to do, Mr. Horatio.

HORATIO: Ah?

MISS DILLY: Plant it beside the gate, where you go in and out on your walks 
every day.

HORATIO: (WITH GREAT ENTHUSIASM) Excellent suggestion, Miss Dilly! Excellent! 

MISS DILLY: (CHUCKLES HAPPILY)

HORATIO: Then I'll see it every day! 

MISS DILLY: Yes!

HORATIO: Yes, I'll see it twice: coming and going! 

MISS DILLY: (CHUCKLES) ... 

HORATIO: I'll see it more than twice if I come and go more than once. 

MISS DILLY: Yes! ...

HORATIO: Thank you, Miss Dilly, for your generous advice.

MISS DILLY: Oh, you're welcome, Mr. Horatio. (DREAMILY) In fact, <u>more</u> than 
welcome. Heh.

HORATIO: (THE SAME) Heh. ... (SNAPS OUT OF IT) Ahem, yes. Then we'll conclude 
the letter. ... Viz: "A helpful friend" -- that's you, Miss Dilly.

MISS DILLY: Oh, thank you. (CHUCKLES) ...

HORATIO: "--friend here at the studio has suggested that we plant the rose 
beside the West Gate." Sign it, "Cordially yours, with regards to Mrs. Bonelli 
and the children, E. Horatio."

MISS DILLY: Yes. Well, I'll type this up and send it right away, air mail.

HORATIO: Good, good. I'll send you a rose from the bush, Miss Dilly.

MISS DILLY: (THRILLED) Ohhh, Mr. Horatio!

HORATIO: Uh huh. As a reward for your suggestion.

MISS DILLY: (SLIGHTLY DISAPPOINTED) Oh. Well, I'll look forward to it. 

HORATIO: You shall receive it without fail -- the very first time it <u>blooms</u>!

MISS DILLY: (HOPING AGAIN) Oh! Well, that will be wonderful!

HORATIO: (RECKLESSLY) I'll send <u>two</u>! ... 

MISS DILLY: (PLEASED) Oh, why, Mr. Horatio!

HORATIO: (AWKWARD) Well, I expect I'd better be getting on. This evening, the 
board is meeting with Mr. Gladstone. Well, goodbye.

MISS DILLY: Goodbye, Mr. Horatio.

SOUND: MISS DILLY'S STEPS TO DOOR

HORATIO: "Au revoir," I should have said, Miss Dilly. 

MISS DILLY: (CHUCKLES)

HORATIO: (OFF) Until next year.

MISS DILLY: Until next year. 

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES OFF

MISS DILLY: (TO HERSELF) Until next year. (SIGHS)

SOUND: FOOTSTEPS BRIEFLY

MARILLA: Hi, Dilly.

MISS DILLY: Hello, Marilla.

MARILLA: (DISGUSTED) So you let him get away again?

MISS DILLY: (DEFENSIVE) Well, he promised to send me a rose, though.

[MARILLA: A rose...with his kind of dough.

MISS DILLY: Two roses. Duchess of Bensboroughs.]

MARILLA: If you don't take the Oscar for a dumb performance! Carrying the 
torch for a guy; you see him once a year and when the day rolls around and you 
get him all alone, all you come away with is an I.O.U. for a couple of roses.

MISS DILLY: Oh, you don't understand, Marilla. He doesn't even know I exist 
even.

MARILLA: Funny he remembers you from year to year. [And always asks for you.] 
Why, his beard was fairly twitching when he asked me to send you in a while 
ago.

MISS DILLY: (DREAMILY) Oh, it's such a handsome beard. ... Marilla--?

MARILLA: Yes, Dilly?

MISS DILLY: When you kiss a man with a beard, does it, um----- tickle? ...

MARILLA: Hasn't he even kissed ya?!

MISS DILLY: Oh, Marilla. We live in different worlds, that's all. He's a-- 
He's a great financier and I'm just a--

MARILLA: Financier! Listen, anybody can be a financier. All you need is the 
money. ... Oh, I forgot. I came in to bring you this.

MISS DILLY: A telegram? 

MARILLA: Sure, it's a telegram. 

MISS DILLY: Now, who on earth--?

MARILLA: Well, open it and see.

SOUND: ENVELOPE OPENED

MISS DILLY: (STUNNED) Marilla--?

MARILLA: What is it? Is somebody dead?

MISS DILLY: Listen to this. (READS) "Your manuscript titled 'Forever 
Hollywood' has been accepted for publication on our Spring List."

MARILLA: (THRILLED) Dilly!

MISS DILLY: "We reluctantly accept your pro-<u>viz</u>-oh that no personal 
information concerning you or your connection with Superior Pictures will be 
divulged by us. Signed Algernon Klopman, President, Klopman-Schuster 
Publishing Company."

MARILLA: But, Dilly, why do you want to keep it a secret?

MISS DILLY: Because-- Well, I might lose my job.

MARILLA: Oh, what do you care? You're an author now. Why, your book'll make a 
million dollars! 

MISS DILLY: (SKEPTICAL) Oh--

MARILLA: I'll bet it will.

MISS DILLY: Oh, go on.

MARILLA: Well, even if it only made a few thousand--

MISS DILLY: But don't you see? I just <u>have</u> to keep my job. Otherwise I won't 
see Mr. Horatio next year!

MUSIC: BRIDGE

SOUND: INTERCOM BUZZES

GLADSTONE: (ON INTERCOM, GRIM) Miss Dilly!

MISS DILLY: Yes, Mr. Gladstone?

GLADSTONE: Come in here right away. And bring your book.

MISS DILLY: (UNEASY) My--? My shorthand book?

GLADSTONE: You know perfectly well what book I mean! <u>That</u> book! Bring it in 
here.

MISS DILLY: (MEEKLY) Yes, Mr. Gladstone.

SOUND: CLICK! OF INTERCOM SWITCH ... MISS DILLY'S STEPS TO DOOR, WHICH OPENS

MISS DILLY: (MEEKLY) Yes, Mr. Gladstone?

GLADSTONE: Sit down. Close the door, Jonah.

JONAH: Close the door. Right, Chief!

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES SHARPLY

GLADSTONE: Well, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: (QUICKLY) Well, Mr. Gladstone, I never had any idea they'd really 
print it. Honestly, I didn't. You yourself said my writing <u>stank</u>, even in 
Technicolor.

GLADSTONE: This is no time for levity, Miss Dilly.

SOUND: PHONE RINGS

GLADSTONE: Ah-ah-ah. Sit still, Miss Dilly. Answer that, Jonah.

JONAH: Right, Chief! 

SOUND: RECEIVER UP

JONAH: (INTO PHONE) -- Who's that? -- (WITH DISDAIN) You snail! You earthworm!

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

GLADSTONE: Who was that?

JONAH: Arthur Horntoot, Jr., over at Culver, the <u>bum</u>! ...

GLADSTONE: Oh, now, listen to me, Miss Dilly. I don't want to have any 
unpleasantness about this, but--

SOUND: PHONE RINGS ... RECEIVER UP

JONAH: Who's this? -- (WITH DISDAIN) Oh, you jerks! You double-barreled 
three-plied heels, you!

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

GLADSTONE: Who was that?

JONAH: (WITH DISDAIN) Tantamount Pictures.

GLADSTONE: (WITH DISGUST) That quickie factory. 

JONAH: (AGREES) Mmmm.

GLADSTONE: You see what you've done to us, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: No, I don't.

GLADSTONE: Those other companies! 

JONAH: Crooks!

GLADSTONE: They want to buy your book!

MISS DILLY: (BEAT) Buy <u>my</u> book?

GLADSTONE: Suppose they'd got to you before we knew anything about it? How do 
you think we would have felt here at Superior?

MISS DILLY: Well, I'm sorry if some of the things I said in my book were-- 
Well, I - I mean, one has to write from one's own experience.

GLADSTONE: You don't understand, Miss Dilly. <u>We</u> want your book, too. 

JONAH: We want to make a picture of it. 

GLADSTONE: We want to pay you money for it.

JONAH: Five thousand dollars!

SOUND: PHONE RINGS

GLADSTONE: I'll get this one.

JONAH: Okay.

SOUND: RECEIVER UP

GLADSTONE: -- (ANGRY) Who's this?! Robbers! Talent thieves! Blood-suckers!

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

JONAH: Who was that?

GLADSTONE: (WITH DISGUST) Mercury! Those-- ...

JONAH: Did you say Mercury, boss?

GLADSTONE: Yes! Those scavengers! 

JONAH: Yeah.

GLADSTONE: (BACK TO BUSINESS) Miss Dilly, don't get your ideas too high. Let's 
say, er, seventy-five hundred dollars.

MISS DILLY: (EVENLY) Have you read my book, Mr. Gladstone?

GLADSTONE: Of course not.

MISS DILLY: You, Mr. Jonah?

JONAH: With the other studios bidding like this? I should waste my time 
<u>reading</u> it?

GLADSTONE: Well, how about it, Miss Dilly? Ten thousand! That's our final 
offer. 

SOUND: PHONE RINGS

JONAH: Hey, ya better take it, Miss Dilly.

SOUND: RECEIVER UP

MISS DILLY: (INTO PHONE) Mr. Gladstone's office.

JONAH: I didn't mean take the phone.

MISS DILLY: This is Miss Dilly. -- Oh, yes, Mr. Klopman. Well, would--? Would 
thirty--? Thirty-five thousand dollars be too much? 

GLADSTONE 
AND JONAH: (REACT WITH DISMAY) ...

MISS DILLY: (CHUCKLES) Thank you, Mr. Klopman.

SOUND: RECEIVER DOWN

GLADSTONE: Who was that?

MISS DILLY: My publisher. Imagine, "Forever Hollywood" is being chosen by the 
Book of the Month Club.

GLADSTONE: That means three hundred thousand right there!

JONAH: Yes!

MISS DILLY: And he says it's selling a thousand copies a day, including 
Sundays.

JONAH: Including Sundays? ... Well, let me see. Let me see now. That's seven 
thousand copies a week at two-fifty a <u>copy</u>. That's, er, two thousand, six 
hundred and twenty-five dollars per <u>week</u>.

GLADSTONE: Jonah!

JONAH: Yes, B. G.?

GLADSTONE: Do you mean to say that she makes more money a week than I do? ...

JONAH: (SOLEMN) Yes, B. G. It looks that way.

MISS DILLY: (WEAKLY) Mr. Gladstone--? Mr. Gladstone? I think I'm going to 
faint.

SOUND: BODY THUDS TO FLOOR

GLADSTONE: Get some water! She's fainted!

JONAH: Right, Chief!

GLADSTONE: No! Wait! While she's out, we'd better plan our strategy.

JONAH: Yeah, that's a good idea, Chief. 

GLADSTONE: Here's what we can do. 

JONAH: Yeah?

GLADSTONE: After she gets off work tonight, we have a car waiting at the 
studio gate, and-- (FADES)

MUSIC: SNEAKS IN DURING ABOVE ... THEN TOPS DIALOGUE ... SWELLING TO CURTAIN

ANNOUNCER: With Ann Sothern as star, Cresta Blanca is bringing you Orson 
Welles' production of "Miss Dilly Says No" on "This Is My Best."

MUSIC: TO SELL WINE BY ... SWEET STRINGS FILL A PAUSE, THEN CONTINUE BEHIND 
ANNOUNCER--

ANNOUNCER: A witty and practical Frenchman once said, as only a Frenchman 
would: "A poem can ne'er / with a dinner compare." Undoubtedly, many of you 
will agree. You know, yourself, the feeling of complete well-being you 
experience after a good dinner. And when you have also enjoyed a fine wine 
with your dinner, you have special reason for satisfaction. For fine wines and 
fine foods just naturally go together. One complements the other. And, if the 
wine served with your meal is a fine Cresta Blanca California Sauterne, your 
dinner is beyond comparison. This excellent Sauterne has a distinctive "dry" 
character that always awakens the hidden flavors in fine foods and creates 
pleasing taste harmonies. It's a light-bodied, golden wine with a delicious 
full flavor. It has a delicate aroma all its own. You will especially enjoy 
Cresta Blanca Sauterne when you serve it well-chilled.

MUSIC: UP AND GENTLY OUT

WELLES: Orson Welles again -- raising the curtain on Act Two of "Miss Dilly 
Says No."

MUSIC: SECOND OVERTURE ... THEN BEHIND WELLES--

WELLES: As our story proceeds, Miss Dilly, enacted, as you will have noticed, 
by Ann Sothern, is still in a dead faint from the shock of having become, 
overnight, America's best-selling authoress. Lest the movie rights to her book 
be captured by some rival studio, Superior Productions, where Miss Dilly is 
employed as a secretary, have placed her in the protective custody of a 
trusted studio policeman. As we look in on her now, she's whizzing along one 
of Hollywood's wide boulevards in a bulletproof limousine.

SOUND: SIREN AND RUNNING AUTO INTERIOR BACKGROUND

MISS DILLY: Where am I? What happened?

MARILLA: Oh, it's all right, Dilly. You just passed out from excitement.

MISS DILLY: Is this an ambulance we're riding in?

MARILLA: No, it's only Mr. Gladstone's car.

MISS DILLY: Only? What are you doing here, Timothy?

TIMOTHY: Well, all I know is I'm supposed to go along everywhere you go, and 
sit outside the door of your apartment and not let anybody in but her.

MISS DILLY: Well, we certainly aren't going in the direction of my apartment. 
We're going in the exact opposite direction!

TIMOTHY: What's that? Well, for cryin' out loud! 

SOUND: SIREN FADES OUT BEHIND--

TIMOTHY: (CALLS) Hey, you, driver! Hey, Mac! Pull up! Stop the car! I've got 
you covered, so you better do as I say.

DRIVER: (NERVOUS) Keep your shirt on, copper. I'll park as fast as I can.

SOUND: DURING ABOVE, CAR SLOWS ... THEN COMES TO A HALT

TIMOTHY: Who are you? You're not Mr. Gladstone's driver.

DRIVER: I'm - I'm Bill Gretz from Intentional Pictures. ... This was the only 
way I could get an interview with Miss Dilly.

TIMOTHY: Go on, get out! Go on, before I let you have it with both barrels.

DRIVER: Look, I just want to ask her one question. Miss Dilly? What was your 
last offer?

MISS DILLY: Amalgamated offered me forty-five thousand, but I--

DRIVER: (QUICKLY) All right, all right. If Amalgamated'll verify that, we'll 
make it fifty. <u>You</u> say it's a deal, <u>I'll</u> say it's a deal. Then it's a deal. 
Because a - deal is a deal.

MISS DILLY: Uh, well, uh-- No, thank you.

DRIVER: (FRUSTRATED, SLOWLY) All right. What <u>is</u> your price?

MISS DILLY: I haven't any!

TIMOTHY: You want to talk to him any more, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: No.

TIMOTHY: You sure you don't? You heard what he said? Fifty grand.

MISS DILLY: It doesn't matter, Timothy.

TIMOTHY: But fifty grand!

MISS DILLY: Timothy, are you working for Superior or Intentional Pictures?

TIMOTHY: I'm trying to work for you.

MISS DILLY: All right then. Just go ahead and do as Mr. Gladstone told you.

TIMOTHY: Couldn't very well do <u>that</u>, Miss Dilly.

MISS DILLY: Why not?

TIMOTHY: Well, after all, Miss Dilly -- murder's against the law!

MUSIC: BRIDGE

MISS DILLY: (YAWNS)

GLADSTONE: Well, well, well, Miss Dilly! Have a good night? 

MISS DILLY: Oh, yes, Mr. Gladstone. Fine, thank you.

JONAH: Nobody, ah, bothered you?

MISS DILLY: Oh, no. No, nothing at all.

GLADSTONE 
AND JONAH: (SIGH SIMULTANEOUSLY) 

GLADSTONE: Thank the Lord. ... Miss Dilly, I read your book last night.

MISS DILLY: You did?

GLADSTONE: Yes. I don't often <u>read</u> a book, but I must say yours is a dilly.

JONAH: (UP BIG) "Yours is a dilly"! That's very funny, Chief!

GLADSTONE: (SHARP) Shut up, Jonah.

JONAH: (DOWN) Yes. ...

GLADSTONE: Confidentially, Miss Dilly, what's your highest offer, er, so far?

MISS DILLY: Well, I--

JONAH: (INTERRUPTS, ENTHUSIASTIC, RAPID) Miss Dilly, look, we're prepared to 
go to sixty thousand if you'll just say it's a deal, this minute, as of now! 
What do you say?

MISS DILLY: (FIRMLY) No.

JONAH: (BURBLES, STARTLED, TO GLADSTONE) She says no.

GLADSTONE: (EXASPERATED) What <u>do</u> you want, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: Well, for one thing, I'd like a raise to forty dollars a week.

[GLADSTONE 
AND JONAH: <u>WHAT</u>?!

MISS DILLY: 
You promised me a raise three years ago, Mr. Gladstone, and I'm still getting 
thirty-seven fifty.]

JONAH: What?! 

GLADSTONE: (TRYING NOT TO EXPLODE) Don't cloud the issue, Miss Dilly. We're 
talking about your story.

MISS DILLY: Mr. Gladstone, I don't want to sell my book, to you or to any 
other studio.

GLADSTONE: (EXPLODES) Nonsense! Whoever heard of anybody not selling a book to 
pictures?!

MISS DILLY: Mr. Gladstone, you shouldn't get so excited.

GLADSTONE: I'll get as excited as I please!

MISS DILLY: It's not good for you, Mr. Gladstone. Remember your nerves. 
(MELODIC) You know how you always break out in shingles. ...

JONAH: But - but <u>why</u>, Miss Dilly? Why won't you sell?

GLADSTONE: Yes, <u>why</u>?!

MISS DILLY: Well, because-- (TAKES A BREATH) Because I don't feel like it.

GLADSTONE: (IN A SQUEAKY, DISBELIEVING VOICE) You don't <u>feel</u> like it? ...

MISS DILLY: No. I thought it all over last night and I-- And I got to thinking 
about you, Mr. Gladstone, and all the men like you. And I decided that for 
your own good it was high time someone said no to you.

MUSIC: BRIDGE

SOUND: DOOR CLOSES

MARILLA: Hello, Dilly.

MISS DILLY: (DREAMILY) Marilla. Imagine - Mr. Horatio's invited me to eat 
dinner and go dancing.

MARILLA: (HEAVY IRONY) Whoopee. ...

MISS DILLY: Goodness, I can't possibly be ready. I don't even own an evening 
dress.

MARILLA: You sap. [You've got a whole movie studio buffaloed and you wonder 
where you're going to get an evening gown.] Tell Gladstone to get you one out 
of wardrobe.

MISS DILLY: Oh, I couldn't do that.

MARILLA: Oh, tell him it's business. You're goin' out with a member of the 
board of directors, ain't ya?

MISS DILLY: Well, I suppose I <u>could</u> tell him that.

MARILLA: And listen, this time, make sure he kisses ya. Otherwise you'll be 
waitin' around till next year again.

MISS DILLY: Well, how can I <u>make</u> sure?

MARILLA: Simple. Give him the old necktie treatment. ...

MISS DILLY: Necktie treatment? What's that? 

MARILLA: Well, when you're driving there in the taxi and the taxi goes around 
a corner--

MISS DILLY: Mm hm?

MARILLA: --you just lose your balance a little and lean against him -- not too 
heavy, you understand? Just - nice like. 

MISS DILLY: (GASPS)

MARILLA: And if that doesn't work, then you notice that his tie is crooked and 
offer to straighten it for him. If you look right into their eyes while you're 
fixing the tie, they never last around the next corner! ...

MUSIC: QUICK BRIDGE

SOUND: MOTOR CAR TURNS CORNER

MISS DILLY: Whoops! Oh! Oh, excuse me, Mr. Horatio.

HORATIO: It wasn't your fault, Miss Dilly. (TO DRIVER, POLITE) Uh, driver, not 
so fast if you please. (TO MISS DILLY) Good thing I was sitting here beside 
you, Miss Dilly. Might have thrown you straight out the other window.

MISS DILLY: (CHUCKLES) Oh, I don't think that would have happened. Now look 
what I've done.

HORATIO: Oh dear, what's that?

MISS DILLY: Your necktie. 

HORATIO: Oh, that's all right.

MISS DILLY: It's all crooked. Here. 

HORATIO: No, don't--

MISS DILLY: Let me straighten it for you.

HORATIO: I - I--

SOUND: CAR SCREECHES AROUND ANOTHER CORNER

MISS DILLY: (EXHALES, COMING UP FOR AIR) Why, <u>Mister Horatio</u>!

HORATIO: (SHEEPISH) I guess I shouldn't have done that. ...

MISS DILLY: (EXHALES HAPPILY) I'm glad you kissed me.

HORATIO: Well, I'm glad you're glad, Miss Dilly, because - <u>I'm</u> glad! ...

MISS DILLY: (GIGGLES) It - it <u>did</u> tickle. ...

MUSIC: BRIDGE ... SEGUES TO DANCE BAND PLAYING A WALTZ

HORATIO: One-two-three. One-two-three. One-two-- I'm sorry, excuse me. Very 
clumsy of me. Two-three. One-two-three. You waltz beautifully, Miss -- ouch! 
-- Miss Dilly. ...

MISS DILLY: Oh, well, thank you. So do you.

HORATIO: Two-three. Miss Dilly, there's something I must confess to you. I 
don't want you to think I've offered you my friendship under any false 
pretenses when I explain something to you, Miss Dilly. I - I really think that 
I ought to explain--

MUSIC: DANCE BAND FINISHES SONG

SOUND: SCATTERED APPLAUSE ... THEN CROWD MURMURS BRIEFLY IN BG

MISS DILLY: Well, I - I think you'd better wait till we get back to your 
table.

HORATIO: To my table? Yes! That's splendid. Can't hear yourself think out 
here, can you?

MISS DILLY: No. 

HORATIO: No.

SOUND: THEY SIT AT TABLE

HORATIO: Ah, there we are.

MISS DILLY: Well! Now then. You say you have a confession to make?

HORATIO: Well, it's not exactly a confession, Miss Dilly, but I've sometimes 
wondered if there wasn't a - a bond between us. Our names.

MISS DILLY: <u>First</u> names, you mean?

HORATIO: (YES) Hmm. I've noticed you always sign your name "S. Dilly."

MISS DILLY: And you always sign yours, "E. Horatio."

HORATIO: I'll tell you what E. stands for if you'll tell me what S. stands 
for. ...

MISS DILLY: All right. If you promise never to call me by my first name.

HORATIO: You'll have to promise the same.

MISS DILLY: (AMUSED) Hmm, I promise.

HORATIO: All right. (IN DEEP SHAME) Mine is-- Mine is -- Eliphalet. 
[ill-IFF-a-let] ...

MISS DILLY: I think I'd better go on calling you Mr. Horatio.

HORATIO: Hmm. And yours?

MISS DILLY: (BEAT, EVEN MORE ASHAMED) Sophonisba. [so-FAHN-iz-ba] ...

HORATIO: Yes. I see what you mean, Miss Dilly.

MUSIC: BRIDGE

SOUND: LIGHT NOCTURNAL BACKGROUND (CRICKETS, ET CETERA)

HORATIO: Well, here we are.

MISS DILLY: (EXHALES HAPPILY) It's been a lovely evening, Mr. Horatio.

HORATIO: (GIDDY) Has it? Has it? Has it?

MISS DILLY: Yes.

HORATIO: Has it? Do you really think so?

MISS DILLY: Oh, yes. Yes. Yes, I do. Don't you?

HORATIO: Well, let's do it all over again tomorrow evening, shall we?

MISS DILLY: Oh, yes.

HORATIO: Do it all over again.

MISS DILLY: (RELUCTANTLY) Well, uh-- Well-- Good night.

HORATIO: Good night. Oh, I almost forgot.

MISS DILLY: (PLEASED) Yes, dear?

HORATIO: (QUICKLY) Miss Dilly, I'm happy to tell you that the studio would 
like to purchase your book and make a picture out of it. (YES) Mm hm.

MISS DILLY: (STUNNED) You! You, too?! 

HORATIO: And I'm particularly happy to let you know the price we are willing 
to offer for it.

MISS DILLY: (DISMAYED) No. No.

HORATIO: One hundred thousand dollars.

MISS DILLY: Mr. Horatio, I thought you didn't like financial matters.

HORATIO: Well, I don't. I just-- Well, what's the matter?

MISS DILLY: (HURT) Can you ask that?

HORATIO: (PUZZLED) But - did you want more money, Miss Dilly? Is that it? If 
it is, I don't see why it can't be arranged.

MISS DILLY: Oh, I thought you cared for me. And all the time you were working 
with the studio to try to get me to sell my book for pictures!

HORATIO: Oh, but what's wrong with that, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: (TEARFUL) Ohhh, I never want to see you again as long as I live! 
You - you <u>Eliphalet</u>! ...

MUSIC: BRIDGE

[MISS DILLY: Imagine, Marilla, after kissing me -- deliberately -- in the tax-
cab....

MARILLA: Did you use the necktie treatment?

MISS DILLY: --- and even making me confess my first name - he had the gall to 
offer me a hundred thousand dollars for my book.

MARILLA: Men are beasts.

MISS DILLY: They surely are. And furthermore --]

SOUND: INTERCOM BUZZES

GLADSTONE: (ON INTERCOM, MISERABLE) Miss Dilly, will you come in here for a 
moment, please?

MISS DILLY: Yes, Mr. Gladstone. [(TO MARILLA) Don't go away, I'll be right 
back.]

SOUND: MISS DILLY'S STEPS TO DOOR, WHICH OPENS AND CLOSES

GLADSTONE: Sit down, Miss Dilly. Have a cigarette.

MISS DILLY: No, thank you.

GLADSTONE: Don't look so frightened, Miss Dilly. I'm not going to talk about 
your story.

MISS DILLY: Then why are you scratching yourself like that?

GLADSTONE: It's my shingles. They've come back, Miss Dilly.

MISS DILLY: Oh, that's what I thought. I warned you against getting so 
excited, Mr. Gladstone.

GLADSTONE: This is the worst case of shingles I've ever had, Miss Dilly. And 
I've been asking myself why.

MISS DILLY: Well, Mr. Gladstone, pardon me for saying so, but you know that 
scratching like that only makes them worse.

GLADSTONE: <u>Why</u>, I asked myself? <u>Why</u> is it worse this time?

MISS DILLY: Well, maybe it's because nobody ever said no to you before, Mr. 
Gladstone.

GLADSTONE: This is your fault, Miss Dilly. Those shingles-- It's all your 
fault.

MISS DILLY: Well, I'll do anything I can to help, Mr. Gladstone. Maybe - maybe 
I could help you scratch them? ...

GLADSTONE: I lay awake all night, asking myself "<u>Why</u>?" <u>Why</u> are they worse this 
time? Is it Miss Dilly's story I want? Or--? (ADVANCING TOWARD HER) Or is 
it--? Is it Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: (BEAT, TERRIFIED) Mr. Gladstone!

GLADSTONE: (PASSIONATE) I love you, Miss Dilly! ... I've never loved anybody 
else for an instant. Marry me and we'll produce your story together! ...

MISS DILLY: Ohhh. Now - now, Mr. Gladstone--

GLADSTONE: Say yes, Miss Dilly. Say yes and put an end to my suffering.

MISS DILLY: Oh, now, really, Mr. Gladstone, you don't have to do this. I've 
changed my mind. Really I have. I'll sell you the story. You can have it for 
nothing.

GLADSTONE: Oh, Dilly, the least I can do-- (DOUBLE TAKE) Huh? What's that? 

MISS DILLY: I said I've changed my mind. You can have my story.

GLADSTONE: (PLEASED) Well! Now you're talking.

MISS DILLY: (SADLY) You see, Mr. Gladstone, I thought saying no to all that 
money might restore some people's faith in human nature. But now - well, I 
haven't got any faith in human nature myself any more. So - if you want me to, 
I'll sign the contract.

SOUND: INSTANTLY, A DRAWER BANGS AND A PAPER RUSTLES

GLADSTONE: Sign it! ... Miss Dilly -- here -- sign your name to this quickly - 
before you change your mind.

MISS DILLY: There's no ink in the pen.

GLADSTONE: Here, here - take mine. Right here, Miss Dilly.

SOUND: DOOR OPENS

HORATIO: Stop! I forbid you to sign that. ...

MISS DILLY: You get out of here, you Eliphalet!

HORATIO: Shut up, Sophonisba! ...

GLADSTONE: Now, come, come. Let's not call each other dirty names. ...

HORATIO: Miss Dilly, you've misunderstood me perfectly dreadfully. They didn't 
tell me you didn't <u>want</u> to sell your book. They explained to me that it was 
just a question of price. They didn't say anything else, not a thing. I 
thought I was giving you such a nice big surprise yesterday evening.

MISS DILLY: Oh, how can I believe you? How can I believe anybody? Give me back 
that pen, Mr. Gladstone, I'm going to sign.

HORATIO: (QUIETLY DESPERATE) If you sign that paper, you'll destroy all my 
faith in your integrity. If you sign, I - I won't even ask you to marry me.

MISS DILLY: You won't - <u>what</u>?

HORATIO: Ask you to marry me.

MISS DILLY: (BEAT, ENTRANCED) <u>Mister Horatio!</u>

HORATIO: Well, I wouldn't want to go around asking you if I thought your 
answer was gonna be no, Miss Dilly. (BEAT, MEEKLY) It wouldn't be no, would 
it, Miss Dilly?

MISS DILLY: (EXHALES HAPPILY) ... No, of course it won't be no! No, no, <u>no</u>, 
Mr. Horatio!

MUSIC: CURTAIN

SOUND: APPLAUSE

ANNOUNCER: Schenley's Cresta Blanca Wine joins the audience here in Hollywood 
in applauding Ann Sothern and Orson Welles for their performances in tonight's 
play on "This Is My Best." In a few moments Mr. Welles will be back to tell 
you about next week.

MUSIC: SWEET STRINGS FILL A PAUSE ... THEN BEHIND ANNOUNCER--

ANNOUNCER: A clever hostess soon learns that when good food and good wine keep 
company at dinner, her hospitality is at its best. Especially when she serves 
a fine Cresta Blanca California table wine with the meal. She has learned this 
excellent wine always lends a charming, friendly touch to the occasion. The 
next time you invite friends for dinner, plan to serve this excellent wine 
with <u>your</u> meal. Then notice how conversation sparkles and how everyone soon 
feels at home. There are just two things to remember in serving wine. First, 
choose the wine you like best, and serve it well chilled. You may prefer a red 
table wine like Cresta Blanca California Burgundy or Claret. Or a white table 
wine such as Cresta Blanca California Sauterne. No matter which you choose, 
when you see the words Cresta Blanca on the bottle, you can be assured you 
have chosen the Crest of Quality in wine since 1889.

Now here is your Cresta Blanca host, Orson Welles.

SOUND: APPLAUSE

WELLES: Thank you. And I'm thanking you for one of our favorite performers -- 
yours and mine -- Miss Ann Sothern. She thanks <u>you</u> and I thank <u>her</u> for a very 
swell Miss Dilly. Thanks, too, from both of us to the rest of the cast, with 
special reference to Mr. Gladstone, so richly delineated this evening by a 
really grand trouper, Mr. Francis X. Bushman.

SOUND: APPLAUSE

WELLES: And now before I tell you about next week's show, just a word about 
paper. Paper is a war material. With this year's increased manpower shortages, 
only an intensified paper salvage program can produce the amounts needed. 
Contact your local paper salvage committee. Thanks.

Well, when Cresta Blanca first inaugurated "This Is My Best," it was 
inevitable that sooner or later we'd get around to Walt Disney. We weren't 
especially surprised to learn that he still considers "Snow White" <u>his</u> best, 
so next week, Easter Week, seemed an appropriate time to present our radio 
version of Mr. Disney's very delightful and very tuneful masterpiece. We'll 
have with us one of the screen's loveliest young singing stars, Miss Jane 
Powell.

So until next week -- until "Snow White" -- I remain, as always, obediently 
yours.

MUSIC: THEME ... THEN OUT BEHIND ANNOUNCER--

SOUND: APPLAUSE

ANNOUNCER: Our musical score was composed by Bernard Katz. Our radio play was 
by Robert Tallman. Don't forget next week - when Orson Welles will again be 
with us as your Cresta Blanca host, to present Walt Disney's "Snow White and 
the Seven Dwarfs," starring Jane Powell. And remember whenever you dine, dine 
with wine, and make it the best wine.

MUSIC: BRIEF MELODIC JINGLES PUNCTUATE THE FOLLOWING AT [X]

ANNOUNCER: C-R-E-S-T-A -- [X] -- B-L-A-N-C-A. [X] Cresta -- [X] -- Blanca. [X] 
Cresta Blanca. [X]

SOUND: APPLAUSE

MUSIC: THEME ... THEN IN BG, UNTIL END--

ANNOUNCER: "This Is My Best," is prepared in collaboration with Whit Burnett, 
editor of the book, "This Is My Best," a presentation of the Cresta Blanca 
Wine Company of Livermore, California, and came to you from Columbia's 
Playhouse in Hollywood. John McIntire speaking.

SOUND: APPLAUSE

ANNOUNCER: This is CBS, the Columbia Broadcasting System.

</pre>
<script type="text/javascript">(function(){window['__CF$cv$params']={r:'62a89a07ee26f0c1',m:'2557a933019e0b88da7567b6a67e05e53237a3de-1614834666-1800-AZ08qkBLAXZEb8/nBiKrdsSxIeXYaGxKyqrNxL+e12HbG3gJQvzLtO+80bUaJGwMZ811c5DVMS86uvrNXCVpHfxfiKz6iW8GKuExpMKx3LclZ5+uHXlbknPJA8OPvbeskkCxPlBQe+B7m5qogmVN6O8=',s:[0x6a5d09655a,0xb1001f8025],}})();</script></body>
</html>