# Blues Analysis

What research question(s) does this project investigate? 
For this project they researched the blues in this they used many different technological software's to get the songs all in one place so they could see the relationship between the different songs, what year they were produced and much more. I thought this was interesting because we used similar software to this in digit 110 and seeing what they were able to do with the software is incredible.
What methods or technologies did the developers use to do the research?
The developers used software like kimu to graph all the different songs onto a chart which shows the relationship between them all with different subtitles that give them those relationships. For them to be able to do this they had to use a java script code that swept through the website they found all the songs on and were able to do this efficiently while not having to look at every song individually. Oh, and they also used Dr. Beshero the greatest coder of all time! in all though they did really well on this project, and it was very relevant and useful to many people!
# Hamilton Project
The Hamilton project visualizations are aesthetically appealing and I really enjoy the colors they have used to make the website pop and look very professional. I also like how they were concise with their explanations to what the project is about and how they achieved while also letting the reader understand it very easily. This project gave me the idea to hopefully make a project about theatre and how the events relate to each other by who is performing, what role they play and etc. I think that it would be a very interesting project and useful to many theatre viewers.